# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

I write code that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable by organizing as much of the code as I can. Using industry accepted practices while creating all of the coding for the project/assignments. I used variables that were easy to understand what they equaled, had proper indentation, and I also commented as much as possible so if someone were to read my code they would know what that code was doing and what it meant. For example, creating the CRUD module, I made sure to add comments stating that "This is the reading function" to let whoever was reading my code know that the read method was below. Over the years though, I have learned you can comment too much making it too messy, so now I try to explain more complex lines of code rather than explain the obvious functions of a particular line. The example about the read method is one to not make a comment on as the method states that it is the read method so why explain further adding unnecessary information.  


How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

Breaking the project down into pieces helps solve a problem as a computer scientist. When the pieces are displayed in front of you, you can then decide where to start. Starting then goes into figuring out what tools are needed and what needs to be implemented to sovle the problem. With this course and creatingt the dashboard for Grazioso Salvare, I tore the project apart. Even more so than just creating the CRUD and then testing that. I broke down the code in the CRUD moduel as well to make sure each line worked as intended. Jupyter notebook also has the capability to split your code frame as I found out in week 6 (wish I knew in the beginning) but that helped a lot and I ran statements hundreds of times trying to make certain statements work. 


What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

There are many different types of Computer Scientists, like coding or general IT are two examples, so it depends on what kind of computer scientist. Regardless, they create solutions to a client's request/problem. They gather as much informatoin as they can to make sure the client will have all of the requirements, then create a program that can execute said requirements. For the Grazioso Salvare project, I gathered that they wanted a geolocation map, a chart, filtering by the types of rescue dogs, etc to create a dashboard that had everything they wanted. Understanding the client's goals is the most important part, and then creating a program that meets those goals. Providing companies an easier way to run their business is essential, and computer scientists are able to do this. 
